OSI Model
1 Physical Layer	- Transmits rew bit stream over the physical medium
2 Datalink Layer	- Deines format of data on the network
3 Network Layer		- Decides which physical path the data will take	
4 Transport Layer	- Transmits data using transmission protocols including TCP and UDP
5 Session Layer		- Maintains connections and is responsible for controlling ports and sessions
6 Presentation Layer	- Ensures that data is in a usable format and is where data encryption occurs
7 Application Layer	- Human computer interaction layer, where applications can access the network services



Java Vulnerability
Java operates through an interpreter, the Java Virtual Machine 
(JVM). The JVM enables the Java program’s functionality. The 
JVM sandboxes or isolates untrusted code from the rest of the 
operating system. There are vulnerabilities, which allow 
untrusted code to go around the restrictions imposed by the 
sandbox. There are also vulnerabilities in the Java class library, 
which an application uses for its security. Java is the second 
biggest security vulnerability next to Adobe’s Flash plugin.

Malware
Malicious software, or malware, is a term used to describe 
software designed to disrupt computer operations, or gain access 
to computer systems, without the user's knowledge or permission. 
Malware has become an umbrella term used to describe all hostile 
or intrusive software. The term malware includes computer viruses, 
worms, Trojan horses, ransomware, spyware, adware, scareware, 
and other malicious programs. Malware may be obvious and simple 
to identify or it can be very stealthy and almost impossible to 
detect.

Viruse
A virus is malicious executable code attached to another 
executable file, such as a legitimate program. Most viruses 
require end-user initiation, and can activate at a specific 
time or date. 

Worms
Worms are malicious code that replicates by independently 
exploiting vulnerabilities in networks. Worms usually slow down 
networks. Whereas a virus requires a host program to run, worms 
can run by themselves. Other than the initial infection, worms no 
longer require user participation. After a worm affects a host, 
it is able to spread very quickly over the network. 

Trojan horse
A Trojan horse is malware that carries out malicious operations 
under the guise of a desired operation such as playing an online 
game. This malicious code exploits the privileges of the user 
that runs it. A Trojan horse differs from a virus because the 
Trojan binds itself to non-executable files, such as image files, 
audio files, or games.


Logic Bombs
A logic bomb is a malicious program that uses a trigger to 
awaken the malicious code. For example, triggers can be dates, 
times, other programs running, or the deletion of a user account. 
The logic bomb remains inactive until that trigger event happens. 

Ransomware
Ransomware holds a computer system, or the data it contains, 
captive until the target makes a payment. Ransomware usually 
works by encrypting data in the computer with a key unknown to 
the user. The user must pay a ransom to the criminals to remove 
the restriction.

Spyware 
Spyware is software that enables a criminal to obtain information 
about a user’s computer activities. Spyware often includes 
activity trackers, keystroke collection, and data capture. 
In an attempt to overcome security measures, spyware often 
modifies security settings. Spyware often bundles itself with 
legitimate software or with Trojan horses. Many shareware 
websites are full of spyware.

Scareware 
Scareware persuades the user to take a specific action based on 
fear. Scareware forges pop-up windows that resemble operating 
system dialogue windows. These windows convey forged messages 
stating that the system is at risk or needs the execution of a 
specific program to return to normal operation. 

Vishing 
Vishing is phishing using voice communication technology. 
Criminals can spoof calls from legitimate sources using voice 
over IP (VoIP) technology. Victims may also receive a recorded 
message that appears legitimate. Criminals want to obtain credit 
card numbers or other information to steal the victim’s identity. 
Vishing takes advantage of the fact that people trust the 
telephone network.

Smishing 
Smishing (Short Message Service phishing) is phishing using text 
messaging on mobile phones. Criminals impersonate a legitimate 
source in an attempt to gain the trust of the victim. For example, 
a smishing attack might send the victim a website link. 
When the victim visits the website, malware is installed on the 
mobile phone.

Pharming
Pharming is the impersonation of a legitimate website in an effort 
to deceive users into entering their credentials. Pharming 
misdirects users to a fake website that appears to be official. 
Victims then enter their personal information thinking 
that they connected to a legitimate site.

Whaling
Whaling is a phishing attack that targets high profile targets 
within an organization such as senior executives. Additional 
targets include politicians or celebrities.

Bluejacking
Bluejacking is the term used for sending unauthorized messages 
to another Bluetooth device. A variation of this is 
to send a shocking image to the other device.

Zero-day attack
A zero-day attack, sometimes referred to as a zero-day threat, 
is a computer attack that tries to exploit software 
vulnerabilities that are unknown or undisclosed by the software 
vendor. The term zero hour describes 
the moment when someone discovers the exploit

### Two Types of Encryption ###

Symmetric algorithms - These algorithms use the same pre-shared 
key, sometimes called a secret key pair, to encrypt and decrypt 
data. Both the sender and receiver know the pre-shared key before 
any encrypted communication begins. As shown in Figure 1, 
symmetric algorithms use the same key to encrypt and decrypt the 
plaintext. Encryption algorithms that use a common key are 
simpler and need less computational power.


Asymmetric algorithms - Asymmetrical encryption algorithms use 
one key to encrypt data and a different key to decrypt data. 
One key is public and the other is private. In a public-key 
encryption system, any person can encrypt a message using the 
public key of the receiver, and the receiver is the only one that 
can decrypt it using his private key. Parties exchange secure 
messages without needing a pre-shared key. 
Asymmetric algorithms are more complex. These algorithms are 
resource intensive and slower to execute.

Data Masking
Data masking technology secures data by replacing sensitive 
information with a non-sensitive version. The non-sensitive 
version looks and acts like the original. This means that a 
business process can use non-sensitive data and there is no need 
to change the supporting applications or data storage facilities.






















